README.md, before:

# MARP-Guide-AI

A Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) chatbot that answers questions about Lancaster University's Manual of Academic Regulations and Procedures (MARP).

## Product Overview

**Target Audience**: Students and staff who need quick access to university regulations.

**Value Proposition**: Reliable, quickly accessible information with source.

**Key Features**:

- Answers derived from MARP PDF documents
- Properly cited (title, page number, and link)
- Presented in an understandable manner

## Architecture

This system uses a **microservices architecture** with **event-driven communication** via RabbitMQ.

### High-Level Architecture Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
  subgraph Users["User Layer"]
    Student[Students]
    Staff[Staff]
  end

  subgraph Presentation["Presentation Layer"]
    WebUI[Web UI<br/>]
    Auth[Authentication Service<br/>]
  end

  subgraph Application["Application Layer"]
    Chat[Chat Service<br/>]
    Retrieval[Retrieval Service<br/>]
    MultiModel[Multi-Model Comparison<br/>]
  end

  subgraph DataProcessing["Data Processing Layer"]
    Ingestion[Ingestion Service<br/>]
    Extraction[Extraction Service<br/>]
    Indexing[Indexing Service<br/>]
  end

  subgraph Infrastructure["Infrastructure Layer"]
    Message-Broker[Message Broker<br/>]
    Vector-Database[(Vector Database<br/>)]
    Storage[(File Storage<br/>)]
    Database[(Database<br/>)]
  end

  subgraph External["External Systems"]
    MARP[Lancaster MARP<br/>]
    LLMs[LLM APIs<br/>]
  end

  %% User interactions
  Student --> WebUI
  Staff --> WebUI
  WebUI --> Auth
  Auth -->Database

  %% Application layer flows
  WebUI --> Chat
  Chat --> MultiModel
  Chat --> Retrieval
  MultiModel --> LLMs
  Retrieval --> Vector-Database

  %% Data processing pipeline (operational)
  MARP -->|Scrape PDFs| Ingestion
  Ingestion -->|DocumentDiscovered| Message-Broker
  Message-Broker -->|Event| Extraction
  Extraction -->|DocumentExtracted| Message-Broker
  Message-Broker -->|Event| Indexing
  Indexing -->|Store Vectors| Vector-Database

  %% Storage connections
  Ingestion --> Storage
  Extraction --> Storage
  Indexing --> Storage

  %% Styling
  style DataProcessing fill:#00A310,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Infrastructure fill:#A3A300,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Presentation fill:#808080,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
  style Application fill:#808080,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
  style External fill:#003BD1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Users fill:#FF6B6B,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
```

**Legend:**

- ✅ **Green** - Operational (Data Processing Pipeline)
- **Yellow** - Infrastructure (Always-on services)
- 🚧 **Gray Dashed** - Planned Features (Tier 1 & 2)
- **Blue** - External Systems
- **Red** - End Users

### Components

1. **Ingestion Service** - Discovers and downloads MARP PDFs from Lancaster's website
2. **Extraction Service** - Extracts text and metadata from PDFs using pdfplumber
3. **Indexing Service** - Chunks documents semantically and generates vector embeddings
4. **Retrieval Service** - REST API for semantic search over indexed documents
5. **Chat Service** - RAG-powered question answering with LLM integration
6. **Qdrant** - Vector database for semantic search
7. **RabbitMQ** - Message broker for event-driven communication

### Event Flow Pipeline

```
Ingestion → DocumentDiscovered → Extraction → DocumentExtracted → Indexing → ChunksIndexed → Retrieval → Chat
```

For detailed architecture diagrams, see:

- [Ingestion Pipeline](docs/services/Ingestion/Ingestion_pipeline.md)
- [Microservices & Broker](docs/services/Microservices_Broker.md)
- [Event Catalogue](docs/events/event-catalogue.md)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- At least 4GB of RAM available for containers
- OpenRouter API key (free tier available)

### Setup

1. **Get an OpenRouter API Key**:
   - Visit [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)
   - Sign up for a free account
   - Get your API key from the dashboard

2. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   # Open the API_KEY file
   cp .env.API_Key .env

   # Edit .env and add your OpenRouter API key
   # Replace 'your_openrouter_api_key_here' with your actual key
   ```

   Your `.env` file should look like:
   ```bash
   OPENROUTER_API_KEY=sk-or-v1-xxxxxxxxxxxxx
   ```

### Running the System

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Th30utcast/MARP-Guide-AI.git
   cd MARP-Guide-AI
   ```

2. **Start all services**:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

   This will start:

   - RabbitMQ (message broker)
   - Qdrant (vector database)
   - Ingestion Service (auto-starts PDF discovery and download)
   - Extraction Service (processes PDFs)
   - Indexing Service (generates embeddings and stores in Qdrant)
   - Retrieval Service (REST API for semantic search)
   - Chat Service (RAG-powered question answering)

3. **Monitor logs**:

   ```bash
   # View all services
   docker compose logs -f

   # View specific service
   docker compose logs -f ingestion
   docker compose logs -f extraction
   docker compose logs -f indexing
   docker compose logs -f retrieval
   docker compose logs -f chat
   ```

4. **Check service health**:
   - Ingestion Service: http://localhost:8001/health
   - Retrieval Service: http://localhost:8002/health
   - Chat Service: http://localhost:8003/health
   - RabbitMQ Management UI: http://localhost:15672
   - Qdrant Dashboard: http://localhost:6333/dashboard

### Testing the Chat Service (RAG Q&A)

The **easiest way** to test the chat service is using the provided scripts:

#### Using Chat Scripts (Recommended)

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
./chat.sh "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Windows Command Prompt:**

```cmd
chat.bat "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Windows PowerShell:**

```powershell
.\chat.ps1 -Query "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Optional parameters:**

```bash
# Specify number of results to retrieve (default: 5)
./chat.sh "What is MARP?" 3
```

#### Browser Testing (Interactive API)

1. **Open your browser** and go to: http://localhost:8003/docs
2. Click on **POST /chat**
3. Click **"Try it out"**
4. Enter your query:
   ```json
   {
     "query": "What happens if I am ill during exams?",
     "top_k": 5
   }
   ```
5. Click **"Execute"**
6. View the generated answer with citations

#### Command Line Testing (Manual)

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8003/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is MARP?", "top_k": 5}'
```

**Windows PowerShell:**

```powershell
$body = @{
    query = "What is MARP?"
    top_k = 5
} | ConvertTo-Json

Invoke-RestMethod -Uri http://localhost:8003/chat `
  -Method POST -ContentType "application/json" -Body $body
```

### Testing the Ingestion Service

**Browser Method (Easiest):**

1. Visit the **FastAPI Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8001/docs
2. Find the `POST /ingest` endpoint
3. Click "Try it out" → "Execute"
4. View the response directly in the browser

**Check these URLs in your browser:**

- Service Info: http://localhost:8001/
- Health Check: http://localhost:8001/health
- Statistics: http://localhost:8001/stats

### Stopping the System

```bash
docker compose down
```

To also remove volumes (PDFs and vector data):

```bash
docker compose down -v
```

## Service Access Details

### RabbitMQ Management UI

- **URL**: http://localhost:15672
- **Username**: `guest`
- **Password**: `guest`

**Key queues to monitor**:

- `documents.discovered` - PDFs ready for extraction
- `documents.extracted` - Text ready for indexing
- `documents.indexed` - Documents indexed in Qdrant

### Qdrant Vector Database

- **HTTP API**: http://localhost:6333
- **Dashboard**: http://localhost:6333/dashboard

**Keys to monitor**:

- View collections (look for `marp-documents`)
- Browse indexed vectors
- Check indexing status
- Test search queries

**Collection details**:

- Name: `marp-documents`
- Vector size: 384 dimensions
- Distance metric: Cosine similarity
- Embedding model: `all-MiniLM-L6-v2`

### Ingestion Service

- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8001/health
- **Note**: Ingestion is a worker service that runs automatically on startup (not a REST API)

### Retrieval Service API

- **URL**: http://localhost:8002
- **Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs
- **Endpoints**:
  - `GET /health` - Health check (returns model info and collection status)
  - `POST /search` - Semantic search endpoint
    - **Request Body**:
      ```json
      {
        "query": "your search query",
        "top_k": 5
      }
      ```
    - **Response**: Returns top-k results with:
      - `text` - Relevant text snippet
      - `title` - Document title
      - `page` - Page number
      - `url` - Link to original PDF
      - `document_id` - Unique document identifier
      - `chunk_index` - Position within document
      - `score` - Relevance score (0-1, higher is better)

### Chat Service API

- **URL**: http://localhost:8003
- **Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8003/docs
- **Endpoints**:
  - `GET /health` - Health check
  - `POST /chat` - RAG-powered question answering
    - **Request Body**:
      ```json
      {
        "query": "your question",
        "top_k": 5
      }
      ```
    - **Response**: Returns generated answer with citations:
      - `query` - The user's question
      - `answer` - Generated answer based on MARP documents
      - `citations` - Array of sources:
        - `title` - Document title
        - `page` - Page number
        - `url` - Link to original PDF

## Data Storage

### PDFs Directory

Downloaded PDFs are stored in:

```
pdfs/
  Intro-to-MARP.pdf
  General-Regs.pdf
  Study-Regs.pdf
  ...
```

### Extracted Data

All events and extracted data are stored in:

```
storage/extracted/{documentId}/
  discovered.json    # DocumentDiscovered event
  pages.jsonl        # Extracted page text (one JSON per line)
  extracted.json     # DocumentExtracted event
  chunks.json        # Document chunks for debugging
  indexed.json       # ChunksIndexed event
```

## Development

### Project Structure

```
MARP-Guide-AI/
├── services/
│   ├── ingestion/          # PDF discovery and download
│   │   ├── ingestion_service.py  # Core service logic
│   │   └── worker.py             # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── extraction/         # PDF text extraction
│   │   ├── extraction_service.py
│   │   └── worker.py       # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── indexing/           # Chunking and embeddings
│   │   ├── indexing_service.py
│   │   └── worker.py       # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── retrieval/          # Semantic search API
│   │   ├── retrieval_service.py  # FastAPI application
│   │   ├── retrieval_utils.py    # Helper functions
│   │   └── worker.py             # Event monitor
│   └── chat/               # RAG-powered Q&A
│       ├── chat_service.py       # FastAPI application
│       ├── retrieval_client.py   # HTTP client for retrieval
│       ├── openrouter_client.py  # LLM API client
│       └── prompt_templates.py   # RAG prompt templates
├── common/                 # Shared modules
│   ├── events.py           # Event schemas and helpers
│   ├── mq.py               # RabbitMQ broker wrapper
│   ├── health.py           # Health check utilities
│   └── logging_config.py   # Logging configuration
├── docs/
│   ├── services/          # Service documentation
│   ├── diagrams/          # Architecture diagrams
│   ├── events/            # Event catalogue
│   └── scrum/             # Product backlog and goals
├── pdfs/                  # Downloaded MARP PDFs
├── storage/extracted/     # Event-sourced data
├── chat.sh                # Chat CLI script (Linux/Mac)
├── chat.bat               # Chat CLI script (Windows CMD)
├── chat.ps1               # Chat CLI script (Windows PowerShell)
└── docker-compose.yml     # Service orchestration
```

## Troubleshooting

### Docker won't start

```bash
# View service logs for errors
docker compose logs rabbitmq
docker compose logs qdrant
docker compose logs ingestion
```

### RabbitMQ connection failed

1. Check RabbitMQ is healthy:

   ```bash
   docker compose ps rabbitmq
   ```

2. Verify RabbitMQ is ready:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs rabbitmq | grep "started"
   ```

3. Restart RabbitMQ:
   ```bash
   docker compose restart rabbitmq
   ```

### Qdrant connection failed

1. Check Qdrant is running:

   ```bash
   docker compose ps qdrant
   ```

2. Test Qdrant API:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:6333/collections

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:6333/collections

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:6333/collections
   ```

3. Restart Qdrant:
   ```bash
   docker compose restart qdrant
   ```

### No PDFs being downloaded

1. Check ingestion service logs:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs ingestion
   ```

2. Check if PDFs already exist:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:8001/stats

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:8001/stats

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:8001/stats
   ```

3. Manually trigger ingestion:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/ingest

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe -X POST http://localhost:8001/ingest

   # Or use browser: http://localhost:8001/docs
   ```

4. Check network connectivity to Lancaster website

### Events not flowing through pipeline

1. Check RabbitMQ queues:

   - Visit http://localhost:15672
   - Login with guest/guest
   - Check "Queues" tab for message counts

2. Verify service health:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:8001/health

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:8001/health

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:8001/health
   ```

3. Check worker logs for errors:
   ```bash
   docker compose logs extraction
   docker compose logs indexing
   ```

## Technology Stack

### Core Infrastructure

| Technology         | Version         | Purpose                                      |
| ------------------ | --------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| **Docker**         | Latest          | Containerization platform                    |
| **Docker Compose** | Latest          | Multi-container orchestration                |
| **RabbitMQ**       | 3.12-management | Message broker for event-driven architecture |
| **Qdrant**         | Latest          | Vector database for semantic search          |

### Ingestion Service

| Technology         | Version | Purpose                                  |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**        | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API |
| **Uvicorn**        | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                  |
| **BeautifulSoup4** | 4.12.2  | HTML parsing and web scraping            |
| **lxml**           | 5.0.0+  | XML/HTML parser for BeautifulSoup        |
| **Requests**       | 2.31.0  | HTTP client for downloading PDFs         |
| **Pika**           | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for Python               |

### Extraction Service

| Technology     | Version | Purpose                              |
| -------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **pdfplumber** | 0.10.3  | PDF text extraction library          |
| **Pika**       | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for consuming events |

### Indexing Service

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                                  |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **sentence-transformers** | 3.0.0+  | Generate semantic embeddings             |
| **qdrant-client**         | 1.7.0   | Python client for Qdrant vector database |
| **NumPy**                 | 1.24.3  | Numerical computations for vectors       |
| **Pika**                  | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for consuming events     |

### Retrieval Service

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                                       |
| ------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**               | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API      |
| **Uvicorn**               | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                       |
| **sentence-transformers** | 3.0.0+  | Generate query embeddings for semantic search |
| **qdrant-client**         | 1.7.0   | Python client for Qdrant vector database      |
| **Pydantic**              | 2.0+    | Data validation and settings management       |
| **Pika**                  | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for publishing events         |

### Chat Service

| Technology     | Version | Purpose                                  |
| -------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**    | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API |
| **Uvicorn**    | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                  |
| **httpx**      | Latest  | Async HTTP client for Retrieval Service  |
| **OpenAI SDK** | Latest  | Python client for OpenRouter API         |
| **Pydantic**   | 2.0+    | Data validation and settings management  |
| **OpenRouter** | API     | LLM gateway (DeepSeek Chat v3.1)         |

### Embedding Model

- **Model**: `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` (from sentence-transformers)
- **Vector Dimensions**: 384
- **Distance Metric**: Cosine similarity
- **Use Case**: Lightweight, fast semantic search for document retrieval

### LLM Model

- **Provider**: OpenRouter
- **Model**: `deepseek/deepseek-chat-v3.1:free`
- **Temperature**: 0.7
- **Max Tokens**: 500
- **Use Case**: RAG-powered question answering with citations

### Development Tools

- **Python**: 3.9+
- **Git**: Version control
- **GitHub**: Repository hosting and collaboration
- **Shell Scripts**: Cross-platform CLI tools (chat.sh, chat.bat, chat.ps1)

Commit message:

Fix .env issue.
-Docker-compose file was not reading the file correctly.
-Changed AI model to Google Gemma (free)

README.md, after:

# MARP-Guide-AI

A Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) chatbot that answers questions about Lancaster University's Manual of Academic Regulations and Procedures (MARP).

## Product Overview

**Target Audience**: Students and staff who need quick access to university regulations.

**Value Proposition**: Reliable, quickly accessible information with source.

**Key Features**:

- Answers derived from MARP PDF documents
- Properly cited (title, page number, and link)
- Presented in an understandable manner

## Architecture

This system uses a **microservices architecture** with **event-driven communication** via RabbitMQ.

### High-Level Architecture Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
  subgraph Users["User Layer"]
    Student[Students]
    Staff[Staff]
  end

  subgraph Presentation["Presentation Layer"]
    WebUI[Web UI<br/>]
    Auth[Authentication Service<br/>]
  end

  subgraph Application["Application Layer"]
    Chat[Chat Service<br/>]
    Retrieval[Retrieval Service<br/>]
    MultiModel[Multi-Model Comparison<br/>]
  end

  subgraph DataProcessing["Data Processing Layer"]
    Ingestion[Ingestion Service<br/>]
    Extraction[Extraction Service<br/>]
    Indexing[Indexing Service<br/>]
  end

  subgraph Infrastructure["Infrastructure Layer"]
    Message-Broker[Message Broker<br/>]
    Vector-Database[(Vector Database<br/>)]
    Storage[(File Storage<br/>)]
    Database[(Database<br/>)]
  end

  subgraph External["External Systems"]
    MARP[Lancaster MARP<br/>]
    LLMs[LLM APIs<br/>]
  end

  %% User interactions
  Student --> WebUI
  Staff --> WebUI
  WebUI --> Auth
  Auth -->Database

  %% Application layer flows
  WebUI --> Chat
  Chat --> MultiModel
  Chat --> Retrieval
  MultiModel --> LLMs
  Retrieval --> Vector-Database

  %% Data processing pipeline (operational)
  MARP -->|Scrape PDFs| Ingestion
  Ingestion -->|DocumentDiscovered| Message-Broker
  Message-Broker -->|Event| Extraction
  Extraction -->|DocumentExtracted| Message-Broker
  Message-Broker -->|Event| Indexing
  Indexing -->|Store Vectors| Vector-Database

  %% Storage connections
  Ingestion --> Storage
  Extraction --> Storage
  Indexing --> Storage

  %% Styling
  style DataProcessing fill:#00A310,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Infrastructure fill:#A3A300,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Presentation fill:#808080,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
  style Application fill:#808080,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
  style External fill:#003BD1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
  style Users fill:#FF6B6B,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
```

**Legend:**

- ✅ **Green** - Operational (Data Processing Pipeline)
- **Yellow** - Infrastructure (Always-on services)
- 🚧 **Gray Dashed** - Planned Features (Tier 1 & 2)
- **Blue** - External Systems
- **Red** - End Users

### Components

1. **Ingestion Service** - Discovers and downloads MARP PDFs from Lancaster's website
2. **Extraction Service** - Extracts text and metadata from PDFs using pdfplumber
3. **Indexing Service** - Chunks documents semantically and generates vector embeddings
4. **Retrieval Service** - REST API for semantic search over indexed documents
5. **Chat Service** - RAG-powered question answering with LLM integration
6. **Qdrant** - Vector database for semantic search
7. **RabbitMQ** - Message broker for event-driven communication

### Event Flow Pipeline

```
Ingestion → DocumentDiscovered → Extraction → DocumentExtracted → Indexing → ChunksIndexed → Retrieval → Chat
```

For detailed architecture diagrams, see:

- [Ingestion Pipeline](docs/services/Ingestion/Ingestion_pipeline.md)
- [Microservices & Broker](docs/services/Microservices_Broker.md)
- [Event Catalogue](docs/events/event-catalogue.md)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- At least 4GB of RAM available for containers
- OpenRouter API key (free tier available)

### Setup

1. **Get an OpenRouter API Key**:
   - Visit [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)
   - Sign up for a free account
   - Get your API key from the dashboard

2. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   # Open the .env file

   # Edit .env and add your OpenRouter API key
   # Replace 'your_openrouter_api_key_here' with your actual key
   ```

   Your `.env` file should look like:
   ```bash
   OPENROUTER_API_KEY=sk-or-v1-xxxxxxxxxxxxx
   ```
   **Note:** If you experience authentication issues, ensure `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` is not exported in your terminal environment (run `unset OPENROUTER_API_KEY` or use a fresh terminal).

### Running the System

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Th30utcast/MARP-Guide-AI.git
   cd MARP-Guide-AI
   ```

2. **Start all services**:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

   This will start:

   - RabbitMQ (message broker)
   - Qdrant (vector database)
   - Ingestion Service (auto-starts PDF discovery and download)
   - Extraction Service (processes PDFs)
   - Indexing Service (generates embeddings and stores in Qdrant)
   - Retrieval Service (REST API for semantic search)
   - Chat Service (RAG-powered question answering)

3. **Monitor logs**:

   ```bash
   # View all services
   docker compose logs -f

   # View specific service
   docker compose logs -f ingestion
   docker compose logs -f extraction
   docker compose logs -f indexing
   docker compose logs -f retrieval
   docker compose logs -f chat
   ```

4. **Check service health**:
   - Ingestion Service: http://localhost:8001/health
   - Retrieval Service: http://localhost:8002/health
   - Chat Service: http://localhost:8003/health
   - RabbitMQ Management UI: http://localhost:15672
   - Qdrant Dashboard: http://localhost:6333/dashboard

### Testing the Chat Service (RAG Q&A)

The **easiest way** to test the chat service is using the provided scripts:

#### Using Chat Scripts (Recommended)

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
./chat.sh "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Windows Command Prompt:**

```cmd
chat.bat "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Windows PowerShell:**

```powershell
.\chat.ps1 -Query "What happens if I am ill during exams?"
```

**Optional parameters:**

```bash
# Specify number of results to retrieve (default: 5)
./chat.sh "What is MARP?" 3
```

#### Browser Testing (Interactive API)

1. **Open your browser** and go to: http://localhost:8003/docs
2. Click on **POST /chat**
3. Click **"Try it out"**
4. Enter your query:
   ```json
   {
     "query": "What happens if I am ill during exams?",
     "top_k": 5
   }
   ```
5. Click **"Execute"**
6. View the generated answer with citations

#### Command Line Testing (Manual)

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8003/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is MARP?", "top_k": 5}'
```

**Windows PowerShell:**

```powershell
$body = @{
    query = "What is MARP?"
    top_k = 5
} | ConvertTo-Json

Invoke-RestMethod -Uri http://localhost:8003/chat `
  -Method POST -ContentType "application/json" -Body $body
```

### Testing the Ingestion Service

**Browser Method (Easiest):**

1. Visit the **FastAPI Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8001/docs
2. Find the `POST /ingest` endpoint
3. Click "Try it out" → "Execute"
4. View the response directly in the browser

**Check these URLs in your browser:**

- Service Info: http://localhost:8001/
- Health Check: http://localhost:8001/health
- Statistics: http://localhost:8001/stats

### Stopping the System

```bash
docker compose down
```

To also remove volumes (PDFs and vector data):

```bash
docker compose down -v
```

## Service Access Details

### RabbitMQ Management UI

- **URL**: http://localhost:15672
- **Username**: `guest`
- **Password**: `guest`

**Key queues to monitor**:

- `documents.discovered` - PDFs ready for extraction
- `documents.extracted` - Text ready for indexing
- `documents.indexed` - Documents indexed in Qdrant

### Qdrant Vector Database

- **HTTP API**: http://localhost:6333
- **Dashboard**: http://localhost:6333/dashboard

**Keys to monitor**:

- View collections (look for `marp-documents`)
- Browse indexed vectors
- Check indexing status
- Test search queries

**Collection details**:

- Name: `marp-documents`
- Vector size: 384 dimensions
- Distance metric: Cosine similarity
- Embedding model: `all-MiniLM-L6-v2`

### Ingestion Service

- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8001/health
- **Note**: Ingestion is a worker service that runs automatically on startup (not a REST API)

### Retrieval Service API

- **URL**: http://localhost:8002
- **Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs
- **Endpoints**:
  - `GET /health` - Health check (returns model info and collection status)
  - `POST /search` - Semantic search endpoint
    - **Request Body**:
      ```json
      {
        "query": "your search query",
        "top_k": 5
      }
      ```
    - **Response**: Returns top-k results with:
      - `text` - Relevant text snippet
      - `title` - Document title
      - `page` - Page number
      - `url` - Link to original PDF
      - `document_id` - Unique document identifier
      - `chunk_index` - Position within document
      - `score` - Relevance score (0-1, higher is better)

### Chat Service API

- **URL**: http://localhost:8003
- **Interactive Docs**: http://localhost:8003/docs
- **Endpoints**:
  - `GET /health` - Health check
  - `POST /chat` - RAG-powered question answering
    - **Request Body**:
      ```json
      {
        "query": "your question",
        "top_k": 5
      }
      ```
    - **Response**: Returns generated answer with citations:
      - `query` - The user's question
      - `answer` - Generated answer based on MARP documents
      - `citations` - Array of sources:
        - `title` - Document title
        - `page` - Page number
        - `url` - Link to original PDF

## Data Storage

### PDFs Directory

Downloaded PDFs are stored in:

```
pdfs/
  Intro-to-MARP.pdf
  General-Regs.pdf
  Study-Regs.pdf
  ...
```

### Extracted Data

All events and extracted data are stored in:

```
storage/extracted/{documentId}/
  discovered.json    # DocumentDiscovered event
  pages.jsonl        # Extracted page text (one JSON per line)
  extracted.json     # DocumentExtracted event
  chunks.json        # Document chunks for debugging
  indexed.json       # ChunksIndexed event
```

## Development

### Project Structure

```
MARP-Guide-AI/
├── services/
│   ├── ingestion/          # PDF discovery and download
│   │   ├── ingestion_service.py  # Core service logic
│   │   └── worker.py             # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── extraction/         # PDF text extraction
│   │   ├── extraction_service.py
│   │   └── worker.py       # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── indexing/           # Chunking and embeddings
│   │   ├── indexing_service.py
│   │   └── worker.py       # RabbitMQ consumer
│   ├── retrieval/          # Semantic search API
│   │   ├── retrieval_service.py  # FastAPI application
│   │   ├── retrieval_utils.py    # Helper functions
│   │   └── worker.py             # Event monitor
│   └── chat/               # RAG-powered Q&A
│       ├── chat_service.py       # FastAPI application
│       ├── retrieval_client.py   # HTTP client for retrieval
│       ├── openrouter_client.py  # LLM API client
│       └── prompt_templates.py   # RAG prompt templates
├── common/                 # Shared modules
│   ├── events.py           # Event schemas and helpers
│   ├── mq.py               # RabbitMQ broker wrapper
│   ├── health.py           # Health check utilities
│   └── logging_config.py   # Logging configuration
├── docs/
│   ├── services/          # Service documentation
│   ├── diagrams/          # Architecture diagrams
│   ├── events/            # Event catalogue
│   └── scrum/             # Product backlog and goals
├── pdfs/                  # Downloaded MARP PDFs
├── storage/extracted/     # Event-sourced data
├── chat.sh                # Chat CLI script (Linux/Mac)
├── chat.bat               # Chat CLI script (Windows CMD)
├── chat.ps1               # Chat CLI script (Windows PowerShell)
└── docker-compose.yml     # Service orchestration
```

## Troubleshooting

### Docker won't start

```bash
# View service logs for errors
docker compose logs rabbitmq
docker compose logs qdrant
docker compose logs ingestion
```

### RabbitMQ connection failed

1. Check RabbitMQ is healthy:

   ```bash
   docker compose ps rabbitmq
   ```

2. Verify RabbitMQ is ready:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs rabbitmq | grep "started"
   ```

3. Restart RabbitMQ:
   ```bash
   docker compose restart rabbitmq
   ```

### Qdrant connection failed

1. Check Qdrant is running:

   ```bash
   docker compose ps qdrant
   ```

2. Test Qdrant API:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:6333/collections

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:6333/collections

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:6333/collections
   ```

3. Restart Qdrant:
   ```bash
   docker compose restart qdrant
   ```

### No PDFs being downloaded

1. Check ingestion service logs:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs ingestion
   ```

2. Check if PDFs already exist:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:8001/stats

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:8001/stats

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:8001/stats
   ```

3. Manually trigger ingestion:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/ingest

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe -X POST http://localhost:8001/ingest

   # Or use browser: http://localhost:8001/docs
   ```

4. Check network connectivity to Lancaster website

### Events not flowing through pipeline

1. Check RabbitMQ queues:

   - Visit http://localhost:15672
   - Login with guest/guest
   - Check "Queues" tab for message counts

2. Verify service health:

   ```bash
   # Linux/Mac
   curl http://localhost:8001/health

   # Windows PowerShell
   curl.exe http://localhost:8001/health

   # Or visit in browser: http://localhost:8001/health
   ```

3. Check worker logs for errors:
   ```bash
   docker compose logs extraction
   docker compose logs indexing
   ```

## Technology Stack

### Core Infrastructure

| Technology         | Version         | Purpose                                      |
| ------------------ | --------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| **Docker**         | Latest          | Containerization platform                    |
| **Docker Compose** | Latest          | Multi-container orchestration                |
| **RabbitMQ**       | 3.12-management | Message broker for event-driven architecture |
| **Qdrant**         | Latest          | Vector database for semantic search          |

### Ingestion Service

| Technology         | Version | Purpose                                  |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**        | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API |
| **Uvicorn**        | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                  |
| **BeautifulSoup4** | 4.12.2  | HTML parsing and web scraping            |
| **lxml**           | 5.0.0+  | XML/HTML parser for BeautifulSoup        |
| **Requests**       | 2.31.0  | HTTP client for downloading PDFs         |
| **Pika**           | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for Python               |

### Extraction Service

| Technology     | Version | Purpose                              |
| -------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **pdfplumber** | 0.10.3  | PDF text extraction library          |
| **Pika**       | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for consuming events |

### Indexing Service

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                                  |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **sentence-transformers** | 3.0.0+  | Generate semantic embeddings             |
| **qdrant-client**         | 1.7.0   | Python client for Qdrant vector database |
| **NumPy**                 | 1.24.3  | Numerical computations for vectors       |
| **Pika**                  | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for consuming events     |

### Retrieval Service

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                                       |
| ------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**               | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API      |
| **Uvicorn**               | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                       |
| **sentence-transformers** | 3.0.0+  | Generate query embeddings for semantic search |
| **qdrant-client**         | 1.7.0   | Python client for Qdrant vector database      |
| **Pydantic**              | 2.0+    | Data validation and settings management       |
| **Pika**                  | 1.3.2   | RabbitMQ client for publishing events         |

### Chat Service

| Technology     | Version | Purpose                                  |
| -------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **FastAPI**    | 0.104.1 | Modern Python web framework for REST API |
| **Uvicorn**    | 0.24.0  | ASGI server for FastAPI                  |
| **httpx**      | Latest  | Async HTTP client for Retrieval Service  |
| **OpenAI SDK** | Latest  | Python client for OpenRouter API         |
| **Pydantic**   | 2.0+    | Data validation and settings management  |
| **OpenRouter** | API     | LLM gateway (Google/Gemma Chat 3n)         |

### Embedding Model

- **Model**: `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` (from sentence-transformers)
- **Vector Dimensions**: 384
- **Distance Metric**: Cosine similarity
- **Use Case**: Lightweight, fast semantic search for document retrieval

### LLM Model

- **Provider**: OpenRouter
- **Model**: `google/gemma-3n-e2b-it:free`
- **Temperature**: 0.7
- **Max Tokens**: 500
- **Use Case**: RAG-powered question answering with citations

### Development Tools

- **Python**: 3.9+
- **Git**: Version control
- **GitHub**: Repository hosting and collaboration
- **Shell Scripts**: Cross-platform CLI tools (chat.sh, chat.bat, chat.ps1)
